child-device requirements (#1195)
thin-edge/thin-edge.io: docs/src/architecture/domain-model.md

    * a **measurements** consists of one or more numeric **data points** and optionally meta information as names or units
  * **Variables**:
    * contain numeric data provided and used by the device, and can be sent to the device (as e.g. "set points")
    * a **variable** consists of one or more numeric **data points** and optionally meta information as names or units
  * **Events**:
    * contain other real-time information from the sensor network, such as the triggering of a door sensor
    * an **event** is triggered by a **data point** (e.g. when it changes to a specific value as `0` or `1`), and contains an optional message text.
  * **Alarms**:
    * similar to Events, but the user or operator of the system has to take action to resolve the alarm
    * an **alarm** is triggered by a **data point** (e.g. when it changes to a specific value as `0` or `1`), and contains an optional alarm text.

## thin-edge plugins and capabilities

**thin-edge** realizes high level cloud functionality (e.g. _configuration management_ or _log management_) with **plugins**.
  * a **plugin** accesses _ressources_ and _services_ of the device, as e.g.

>       * the _package manager_ for _software managemennt_
>       * _configuration files_ for _configuration management_

Author: ```suggestion
      * the _package manager_ is accessed by _software managemennt_
      * _configuration files_ are accessed by _configuration management_
```

    * a **child-device agent** can be installed and executed on the **external child-device**, or on the **main-device**
      * if it runs in the **external child-device** it can access the _resources_ directly
      * if it runs on the **main-device** it can use any (low-level) interfaces the **external child-device** provides to access those resources
        * One main reason to install the **child-device agent** on the **main-device** is, when the **external child-device** cannot or shall not be altered.
    * a **child-device agent** must interact with the **plugin**, based on the **protocol** defined by the **plugin**;
      that could be e.g.:
      * to listen and react to requests of the **plugin**, e.g. on MQTT
      * to provide/consume files to/from the **plugin** on purpose, e.g. via HTTP

A **plugin** can be described with a **capability**.
   * a **capability** has a unique name, that references the **plugin** it describes (e.g. `tedge_config`)
   * a **capability** implicitely claims the **protocol** the **plugin** defines

>    * whenever a **plugin** provides the same **capability** as a **child-device agent** supports, both are compatible and can interact with each other
>    * whenever one **plugin** provides the same **capability** as another one, it can replace the latter
>      * e.g. when a `c8y_configuration_plugin` and an `azure_configuration_plugin` provide the same **capability**, each can be replaced with the other one

Author: ```suggestion
   * whenever a **plugin** provides the same **capability** as a **child-device agent** supports, both are compatible and can interact with each other
   * whenever one **plugin** provides the same **capability** as another one, it can replace the latter
     * e.g. when a `c8y_configuration_plugin` and an `azure_configuration_plugin` provide the same **capability**, each can be replaced with the other one
   * **capabilities** are especially used for provisioning of **external child-devices**, to align and connect all **child-device agent(s)** and the coresponding **plugins**
```

# thin-edge Domain Model

The following section introduces the **thin-edge** domain model.

The **thin-edge** domain model explains details of target domains **thin-edge** is primarily designed for.
It identifies _entities_ and _aspects_ of those target domains, that are touch points for **thin-edge**.
Additionally it introduces new _entities_ or _aspects_ to seamlessly fit **thin-edge** into those target domains.

Finally the **thin-edge** domain model gives..
  * _target domain experts_ a clear idea how to position **thin-edge** in their target domain

>   * _target domain experts_ **and** _thin-edge developers_ a common understanding and unique vocabulary for **thin-edge** and it's environment

Author: That section is intended for the reader. I really like to keep it, since it explains reason and goal for the domain model, and gives a better read flow.

>   * _target domain experts_ **and** _thin-edge developers_ a common understanding and unique vocabulary for **thin-edge** and it's environment

Reviewer: I agree this a matter of taste. I prefer texts that simply dive into the main topic without long preambles telling what will be told.

## thin-edge target domains

**thin-edge** is designed to facilitate IoT functionality to resource constrained **devices**.

> The focus is on industrial OT **devices** or any other kind of embedded **devices**. It is not reduced to **devices** that are capable to install and run thin-edge, but includes also **devices** that need another _(gateway) device_ aside, that executes **thin-edge**.

Reviewer 2: I would include IPC, routers or generalized edge devices running linux.

> The focus is on industrial OT **devices** or any other kind of embedded **devices**. It is not reduced to **devices** that are capable to install and run thin-edge, but includes also **devices** that need another _(gateway) device_ aside, that executes **thin-edge**.

Author: > > The focus is on industrial OT **devices**
> 
> I disagree. For me thin-edge focus is on IoT gateways between the cloud and OT devices.

"The focus" does not mean devices that _run_ thin-edge, but those devices that will be _facilitated_ with IoT functionality by thin-edge. So that includes the gateway case, as well as cases where thin-edge can installed directly on an OT device.

So maybe it is more clear when changing wording as below:

    - **thin-edge** is designed to facilitate IoT functionality to resource constrained **devices**. The focus is on industrial OT **devices** or any other kind of embedded **devices**.

    + **thin-edge** is designed to facilitate IoT functionality to resource constrained **devices**, those are primarily industrial OT **devices** or any other kind of embedded **devices**.

Can you go with that, @didier-wenzek  ?

> The focus is on industrial OT **devices** or any other kind of embedded **devices**. It is not reduced to **devices** that are capable to install and run thin-edge, but includes also **devices** that need another _(gateway) device_ aside, that executes **thin-edge**.

Reviewer: > Can you go with that, @didier-wenzek ?

This is not my understanding of the vision for thin-edge.

> The focus is on industrial OT **devices** or any other kind of embedded **devices**. It is not reduced to **devices** that are capable to install and run thin-edge, but includes also **devices** that need another _(gateway) device_ aside, that executes **thin-edge**.

Author: > I disagree. For me thin-edge focus is on IoT gateways between the cloud and OT devices.

Ok, now I think I got your point.

The document explain currently an "OT Device Domain". What you are missing is a cloud perspective, meaning a "Cloud Domain", right?

I will add that.

> The focus is on industrial OT **devices** or any other kind of embedded **devices**. It is not reduced to **devices** that are capable to install and run thin-edge, but includes also **devices** that need another _(gateway) device_ aside, that executes **thin-edge**.

Author: Created now a new section "IoT Cloud Domain". Please have a look.

Usual **devices** are **PLCs** (**P**rogrammable **L**ogic **C**ontrollers), **IPCs** (**I**ndustrial **PC**s) or any kind of **SoC-based** or **Microcontroller-based** Embedded System. The figure below shows a simplified conceptual model of such a device.

> ![Simple Device Model](images/simple-device-model.svg)

Reviewer 2: In the diagram I will also include connecting to other devices which may or may not have thin-edge running but need device managment e.g. Sony use case

> ![Simple Device Model](images/simple-device-model.svg)

Author: > In the diagram I will also include connecting to other devices which may or may not have thin-edge running but need device managment e.g. Sony use case

That section and its diagram does not talk about thin-edge at all. Instead it describes one of the two _worlds_ thin-edge connects. Here the _world_ of the "OT Device Domain" is described. The 2nd _world_ is the "Cloud Domain", as described in next section.

What you are looking for should be part of sections "thin-edge device concept" and "thin-edge device management concept".

* **Sensors** and **Actuators** enable the **device** to observe and control physical behaviour on the shopfloor or device's environment.
  * can be integrated in the **device's** hardware,
    or connected to the **device** via some **Fieldbus** (e.g. Modbus, CANopen, PROFINET, EtherCAT, ...) or
    some **Local Interface** as USB, UART, SPI, I2C, ...
  * can be simple peripherals as a light barrier, or a sensor for temperature or pressure;
    or complex equipments as robotic arms or even other **devices**
* **Inputs / Outputs** are the communication channels between the **Domain Application** and **Sensors** and **Actuators**
  * drivers (as part of the **OS / Libs / Runtime** and/or the **Domain Application**) do expose all data from
    **Sensors** and **Actuators** to the **device** as inputs or outputs
  * also the **Domain Application** can expose data as input or output (e.g. own _signals_ or _states_)

## thin-edge data concepts

**thin-edge** provides different devices in a standardized representation to the cloud. Therefore **thin-edge** provides specialized data concepts.

> The data concepts below belong to **inputs** and **outputs** available on a device. Thereby each **input** and **output** is refered as a **data point**.

Author: With introducing the "Cloud Domain" (see https://github.com/thin-edge/thin-edge.io/pull/1195#discussion_r991034035) I will also consider those definitions.

  * **Measurements**:
    * contain numeric data produced by sensors (like temperature readings) or calculated data based on information from the **control application**.

>     * a **measurements** consists of one or more numeric **data points** and optionally meta information as names or units

Reviewer 2: Addtionally a measurement can be a collection of metric e.g. 3-phase power

>     * a **measurements** consists of one or more numeric **data points** and optionally meta information as names or units

Author: Thanks for the hints and the link above. I will consider both.

>     * a **measurements** consists of one or more numeric **data points** and optionally meta information as names or units

Author: I introduced now a new section "IoT Cloud Domain", that addresses all hints from above. Please have a look.

## thin-edge data concepts

**thin-edge** provides different devices in a standardized representation to the cloud. Therefore **thin-edge** provides different kinds of data concepts.

  * **Measurements**:
    * contain numeric data produced by sensors (like temperature readings) or calculated data based on information from the **control application**.
    * a **measurements** consists of one or more numeric **data points** and optionally meta information as names or units

>   * **Variables**:

Reviewer 3: The name `variables` sounds a bit vague. Why not use `set points` as that's a more familiar term in the domain?

Author: > I would use the term command as this is something sent to the device for action.

I applied that suggestion.

>     * contain numeric data provided and used by the device, and can be sent to the device (as e.g. "set points")

Reviewer 3: Why that restriction on numeric values only? Boolean values(ON/OFF) and even string literals(a target paint colour: "GREEN", "RED" etc) are quite common aren't they? Obviously they end-user can model such by mapping them to numeric values. Is that what we expect?

Reviewer 2: Agree

Author: fair point, I will remove that restriction to numbers

Author: fixed

    * a **variable** consists of one or more numeric **data points** and optionally meta information as names or units
  * **Events**:
    * contain other real-time information from the sensor network, such as the triggering of a door sensor
    * an **event** is triggered by a **data point** (e.g. when it changes to a specific value as `0` or `1`), and contains an optional message text.
  * **Alarms**:
    * similar to Events, but the user or operator of the system has to take action to resolve the alarm
    * an **alarm** is triggered by a **data point** (e.g. when it changes to a specific value as `0` or `1`), and contains an optional alarm text.

## thin-edge plugin concept

### Plugin

> **thin-edge** realizes high level cloud functionality (e.g. _configuration management_ or _log management_) with **plugins**.

Reviewer 3: I don't think cloud functionality is the right term there. I'd have written `thin-edge realizes device management from the cloud using plugins`

Author: Fair point. I refer it now as "Device Management functionality".

>   * each device has a unique **device-id**

Author: Here the cloud aspects are missing, e.g.:
  - How is the main-device represented in the cloud?
  - How is an external child-device represented in the cloud?

I am going to add those aspects.

Author: Cloud aspect is now added to section "thin-edge device concept".

## thin-edge plugin concept

> **thin-edge** realizes full-fledged cloud functionality (e.g. _configuration management_ or _log management_) with **plugins**.

Author: Maybe, however it matches very good what you described in the technical vision.

Or do you have any better name? Feel free to suggest one.

> **thin-edge** realizes full-fledged cloud functionality (e.g. _configuration management_ or _log management_) with **plugins**.

Reviewer: The issue with *plugin* is that is too vague and be broadly applied to too many different kinds of extensions. We use this term for software management plugins, operation plugins and Rust plugins while the nature and interface of these plugins are unrelated.

> **thin-edge** realizes full-fledged cloud functionality (e.g. _configuration management_ or _log management_) with **plugins**.

Author: @didier-wenzek , what do you think about the term `add-on`, using for components like `c8y-config-plugin`, or similar 3rd party or customer specific components?

That would include components that:
     - are _not_ part of the core
     - _not_ somehow hooked or linked into the core executable
     - but instead make use of core's _public_ APIs
     - and maybe coded in Rust or any other scripting/programming language

The good things are, (1) so far we do not use that term at all, so there is no clash (2) the term implies some kind of separation to core thin-edge.

  * a **plugin** can be an (external) executable (e.g. as the `c8y_configuration_plugin` for _configuration management_)
    or a thin-edge built-in software component (e.g. as for _software management_)
  * usually a **plugin** runs on the **main-device**; thus it can access the _resources_ of the **main-device** directly

>   * to access _ressources_ of an **external child-device** a **plugin** needs another component, referred as **child-device agent**

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  * to access _ressources_ of an **external child-device** a **plugin** might need to interact with another component running on the child device, referred to as **child-device agent**, unless the plugin is running directly on the child-device, interacting directly with thin-edge.
```

Author: At that place I like to keep that sentence simpler. That suggestion contains many details that are hard to understand in just one sentence. Furthermore those things are outlined in next section about the "Child-Device Agent" in the next lines.

If you feel something is missing in that "Child-Device Agent" section, feel free suggest a change there.

### Child-Device Agent
  * a **child-device agent** is the counterpart of a **plugin**, that takes the responsibility to access to the **external child-device's** _resources_
  * a **child-device agent** can serve one or more **plugins**
  * a **child-device agent** can be installed and executed on the **external child-device**, or on the **main-device**
    * if it runs in the **external child-device** it can access the _resources_ directly
    * if it runs on the **main-device** it can use any (low-level) interfaces the **external child-device** provides to access those resources
      * One main reason to install the **child-device agent** on the **main-device** is, when the **external child-device** cannot or shall not be altered.

### Plugin-Contract

a **plugin** defines and implements a specific **contract** for all interactions with a **child-device agent**
  * part of the **contract** could be e.g.:
      * the **child-device agent** must listen and react to certain requests of the **plugin**, e.g. on MQTT
      * the **child-device agent** must provide/consume files to/from the **plugin** on purpose, e.g. via HTTP
      * ...and more...

>   * a **plugin's** **contract** can be denoted with a unique name (e.g. `tedge_config`)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  * a **plugin's** **contract** can be denoted with a unique capability name (e.g. `tedge_config`)
```

    * based on that unique name a **child-device agent** can report and find **plugins** the child-device intends to contact (e.g. during providioning phase)

>     * those information can be provided to the cloud and other applications on the device site

Reviewer 3: I din't quite understand what you were trying to communicate with that sentence.

Author: @albinsuresh , sorry, I am not sure which sentence you mean exactly. Can you please quote it?

Figure below illustrates the concept of **plugins**, their **contracts** and **external child-devices agents**, as described above.

> ![Child-Device Agent](images/child-device-agent.svg)

Reviewer 3: Liked that diagram but the descriptor titled "Child-Device Agent" seems misleading as the diagram shows the entire device deployment,  not just the child device agent.

Author: It is now named "plugin concept".

> TODO: Capabilities shall also enable to describe a device's supported **measurements**, **variables**, **events** and  **alarms**

Reviewer 3: I didn't quite get the link between capabilities and this telemetry data.

Author: The idea was, that a device can somehow describe which kind of telemetry data it provides (e.g. which kind of measurments, which alarms, ...) so that a 3rd party (e.g. APAMA) can use those meta information to find and work on devices and their telemetry it needs. Anyway, I removed that TODO note, since I eliminated also the term 'capability' in that document.

However I will keep that idea of _telemetry data meta information_ and will consider it in a later version of the domain model and also in the data model.

    * based on that unique name a **child-device agent** can report and find **plugins** the child-device intends to contact (e.g. during providioning phase)
    * those information can be also provided to the cloud and other applications on the device site, on purpose

## Main Challenges

* Industrial automation area is very heterogen.
  * Even there are standards like IEC 61131-3 (that standardizes programming lanuages and behaviour) and common Fieldbus protocols, interoperability to industrial controllers and the diversity of peripheral devices from different manufucaters is hard to manage.
* Ressources constraint device hardware
* _Knowledge-Gap_ between OT and IT. Industrial application engineers (the PLC guys) are most often no software developers but experts for the manufacturing process. Instead software developers (e.g. the cloud guys) have less awareness for needs of industrial application engineers and the shopfloor.

> * Many PLC sites have restrictected network access (especially in a manufaturing hall).

Author: Agreed. I will just remove that.

> * Many PLC sites have restrictected network access (especially in a manufaturing hall).

Author: Done.

Finally the **thin-edge** domain model gives..
  * _target domain experts_ a clear idea how to position **thin-edge** in their target domain
  * _target domain experts_ **and** _thin-edge developers_ a common understanding and unique vocabulary for **thin-edge** and it's environment

## thin-edge target domains

**thin-edge** is designed to facilitate IoT functionality to resource constrained **devices**.
The focus is on industrial OT **devices** or any other kind of embedded **devices**. It is not reduced to **devices** that are capable to install and run thin-edge, but includes also **devices** that need another _(gateway) device_ aside, that executes **thin-edge**.

Usual **devices** are **PLCs** (**P**rogrammable **L**ogic **C**ontrollers), **IPCs** (**I**ndustrial **PC**s) or any kind of **SoC-based** or **Microcontroller-based** Embedded System. The figure below shows a simplified conceptual model of such a device.

![Simple Device Model](images/simple-device-model.svg)

<!--
* TODO: add somehow "Such a **device** is most often a specialized hardware that has been ruggedized to operate in harsh electrical, thermic and mechanical industrial environments."
-->

> * The **Domain Application** is a program, usually developed by a **Domain Expert**

Reviewer 2: Lets use the same user persona's as defined in the vision document

Author: ```suggestion
* The **Domain Application** is a program, usually developed by an **End User** (e.g. a PLC Application Engineer or an Embedded Software Developer)
```

@itsroshan , do you agree to that?

Reviewer: The end-user is not supposed to develop something ;-) According to the [current vision document](https://github.com/thin-edge/thin-edge.io/pull/1226/files) this is done by an "Interface Developer". That said using this term here seems a bit weird. This is for me a sign that the vision should be updated with a better name.

Author: For me it is even not the "Interface Developer". That is since the one who implements by example a **PLC application** (the domain application on a PLC) might get never in touch with thin-edge. Instead some **protocol driver** might gather data that the **PLC application** just provides.
In that case the "Interface Developer" is the one who implements the **protocol driver**. However I want to highlight here the guy who has all the knowledge about the domain specific details (in case of PLCs it is the **PLC automation engineer** who has expert knowledge about the automation process).

I feel we miss that persona that I refer here as **Domain Expert** in the current vision document.

Author: > If I understand correctly your comment, the work of this domain expert is unrelated to thin-edge. Am I correct? If so, there is no point to say a work about him in the vision or even this doc.

That is true. I just want to explain who is in charge to create that application to give an idea to the reader what that application is about. However next lines refere to 'automation engineer' and 'embedded software engineer', so that fits that purpose.

So I will remove the persona here.

  * to access _ressources_ of an **external child-device** a **plugin** needs another component, referred as **child-device agent**

The figure below illustrates the concept of **plugins** and **child-devices agents**.

![Plugin Concept](images/plugin-concept.svg)

### Child-Device Agent
  * a **child-device agent** is the counterpart of a **plugin**, that takes the responsibility to access to the **external child-device's** _resources_
  * a **child-device agent** can serve one or more **plugins**
  * a **child-device agent** can be installed and executed on the **external child-device**, or on the **main-device**
    * if it runs in the **external child-device** it can access the _resources_ directly
    * if it runs on the **main-device** it can use any (low-level) interfaces the **external child-device** provides to access those resources
      * One main reason to install the **child-device agent** on the **main-device** is, when the **external child-device** cannot or shall not be altered.

### Plugin-Contract

A **plugin** defines and implements a specific **contract** for all interactions with a **child-device agent**

>   * part of the **contract** could be e.g.:

Reviewer 2: Are we expecting it to be valid contract for for main device too?( forget about child devices)...so anyone can add a diferent implementation for the main device e.g. one can implement a different config management locally but has to adhere to the contract.

Author: Of course, we should consider that. Especially in a containerized environment it allows a plugin to access resources in another container via that contract.

Unfortunately that's not clear from the current document. I will add that.

Author: I added that aspect, see https://github.com/cstoidner/thin-edge.io/commit/0002a92a91a0f0bc7420a8fcdecd670a9ce6e13c

# thin-edge Domain Model

The following section introduces the **thin-edge** domain model.

**thin-edge** is the glue between the **cloud** and **devices**. I.e. it interfaces on the one hand **devices** (especially resource constrained industrial **devices**), and connects on the other hand the **cloud**.
The **cloud** could be some IoT Cloud Platform, as e.g. [Cumulocity](https://www.softwareag.cloud/site/product/cumulocity-iot.html), [Azure](https://azure.microsoft.com) or [AWS](https://aws.amazon.com); or an on-premise "IoT system".

**thin-edge** has been designed with the assumption that the **device** is represented in the **IoT cloud** as **device twin**.
The **device twin** in the IoT cloud is a logical representation of the **device**. As such, it stores the _state_ of the **device**.

> Here _state_ refers to e.g. **Telemetry Data** or **Device Management** details as _installed software versions_ or _configurations_.

Author: I agree. Telemetry data is now separated, see https://github.com/cstoidner/thin-edge.io/commit/e4c57206351183fc906717cae3ba2a3fea0dcb93

    * values could be a mix of numbers, strings or booleans
    * **thin-edge** provides those values to the **domain application**[^1] and **protocol drivers**[^1]
  * **Event**, is a notification that something happened on the device's environment or software system
    * it's source could be
      - a _sensor's[^1] value_ that detected a door has beed closed
      - a signal from the device's domain application[^1]
      - a device's system notification that a user has started an ssh session
    * has one timestamp
    * the meaning of an event related _sensor[^1] value_ or _domain application's[^1] signal_ is very customer specific (could be a change from 0 to 1, a bit in a flag word, ...)
    * a _custom specific sw component_ must know the meaning, and sends an event notification to the **thin-edge** whenever the value signals a raised event
* **Alarm**, similar to **events**; but in addition: 
    * the _End User_ (an operator of the system) has to take action to resolve the **alarm**
    * also the _custom specific sw component_ can send a notification to **thin-edge** to clear an **alarm**  

## Device Management

> **Device Management** provides to manage and monitor devices in the field from the cloud.

Author: Thanks, I will adapt also the rest of the document accordingly.

> **Device Management** provides to manage and monitor devices in the field from the cloud.

Author: Applied in new PR, see https://github.com/thin-edge/thin-edge.io/pull/1554#issuecomment-1300967507

# thin-edge Domain Model

The following section introduces the **thin-edge** domain model.

**thin-edge** is the glue between the **cloud** and **devices**. I.e. it interfaces on the one hand **devices** (especially resource constrained industrial **devices**), and connects on the other hand the **cloud**.

> The **cloud** could be some IoT Cloud Platform, as e.g. [Cumulocity](https://www.softwareag.cloud/site/product/cumulocity-iot.html), [Azure](https://azure.microsoft.com) or [AWS](https://aws.amazon.com); or an on-premise "IoT system".

Reviewer 4: Just some minor grammar fixes. 

The **cloud** could be some IoT Cloud Platform, such as [Cumulocity](https://www.softwareag.cloud/site/product/cumulocity-iot.html), [Azure](https://azure.microsoft.com), [AWS](https://aws.amazon.com); or an on-premise "IoT system".

> The **cloud** could be some IoT Cloud Platform, as e.g. [Cumulocity](https://www.softwareag.cloud/site/product/cumulocity-iot.html), [Azure](https://azure.microsoft.com) or [AWS](https://aws.amazon.com); or an on-premise "IoT system".

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The **cloud** could be some IoT Cloud Platform, such as [Cumulocity](https://www.softwareag.cloud/site/product/cumulocity-iot.html), [Azure](https://azure.microsoft.com) or [AWS](https://aws.amazon.com); or an on-premise "IoT system".
```

**thin-edge** has been designed with the assumption that the **device** is represented in the **IoT cloud** as **device twin**.

> The **device twin** in the IoT cloud is a logical representation of the **device**. As such, it stores the _state_ of the **device**.

Author: Considered in new PR, see https://github.com/thin-edge/thin-edge.io/pull/1554#issuecomment-1305889778

Here _state_ refers to e.g. **Telemetry Data** or **Device Management** details as _installed software versions_ or _configurations_.

## Telemetry Data

> **Telemetry data** are _measurements_, _events_ and _alarms_ collected or raised by sensors[^1], actuators[^1] or domain applications[^1].

Reviewer 4: I think we are missing a section for the "Inventory data" which is neither measurement nor metrics.

In Cumulocity context this would be classically modelled as a specific fragment (property) on the device managed object. This is partially already mentioned in the first section with the software management example where the installed software packages would be stored somewhere.

Author: Applied in new PR, see https://github.com/thin-edge/thin-edge.io/pull/1554#issuecomment-1304053106

 * **Measurement**:
    * is a single value or set of values, all taken at a single point in time
      * could be a mix of values coming from physical **Sensors**[^1] and the device's **Domain Application**[^1]
      * could be a mix of numbers, strings or booleans
    * has one timestamp
    * releates to one **metric**
    * **thin-edge** puts the measurement into the context of the corresponding **metric** and sends it to the cloud
  * **Metric**, is a time-series of measurements
    * relates to a _source device_<br/>
      TODO: could the source also be a _process_? (See [comment](https://github.com/thin-edge/thin-edge.io/pull/1195#discussion_r992207078))
    * has a _type name_
    * optionally holds _units_ for the **measurements**
  * **Command**, is a single value or set of values

>     * is send from the cloud to one device, e.g. to

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    * is sent from the cloud to one device, e.g. to
```

    * a _custom specific sw component_ must know the meaning, and sends an event notification to the **thin-edge** whenever the value signals a raised event
* **Alarm**, similar to **events**; but in addition: 
    * the _End User_ (an operator of the system) has to take action to resolve the **alarm**
    * also the _custom specific sw component_ can send a notification to **thin-edge** to clear an **alarm**  

## Device Management

**Device Management** provides to manage and monitor devices in the field from the cloud.
That includes:
  * **Software Management**:
    * provides to manage the installed software packages on the device, as
      * retrieve list and versions of installed packages
      * install new or update existing software packages
      * remove installed software packages
    * software packages are installable units on the device, as e.g.
      * packages for a Linux Packages Managers (e.g. for Debian, ...)
      * container images (e.g. for Docker)
      * simple ZIP files
      * custom specific files/packages
    * software packages can carry:
      * the **domain application**[^1]
      * parts from **OS / Libs / Runtime**[^1], or the whole thing as one

>       * **thin-edge** it-self

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
      * **thin-edge** itself
```

      * configuration file(s) of **OS / Libs / Runtime**[^1]
      * configuration file(s) of **thin-edge** it-self
* **Log Management**:
    * provides to view logs from the device
      * lists available logs
      * transfer individual logs from device to cloud
    * a log is a text file, as e.g.
      * log file(s) of the **domain application**[^1]
      * log file(s) of **OS / Libs / Runtime**[^1]
      * log file(s) of **thin-edge** it-self
* **Device Monitoring**:
    * collects metrics (e.g. cpu, memory and disk metrics) from the device and forward these to the IoT cloud
    * allows monitors the health of devices
    * helps to troubleshoot when problems with the device are reported

[^1]: more details see appendix [Device Domain](#device-domain)

## Child-Devices

**thin-edge** facilitates IoT functionality to the device it is running on, as well as to devices that are connected to that device.
  * the device **thin-edge** is running on is referred as the **main-device**
    * **thin-edge** on the **main-device** establishes and manages all communication to the cloud
  * all devices connected to the **main-device** are referred as **external child-devices** 

>   * each **external child-device** can be represented in the cloud with it's individual **device twin**

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  * each **external child-device** can be represented in the cloud with its individual **device twin**
```

# thin-edge Domain Model

The following section introduces the **thin-edge** domain model.

> The **thin-edge** domain model explains details of target domains **thin-edge** is primarily designed for.

Reviewer 5: In general, I like https://cumulocity.com/guides/concepts/domain-model/ more: More to the point.

IMHO this section introduces quite some terms with weak semantics, and the terms are not relevant for the audience to understand thin-edge domain model ("target domain", Entity, Aspects, target domain expert).

My suggestion: Drop

Author: That section was dropped now.

It identifies _entities_ and _aspects_ of those target domains, that are touch points for **thin-edge**.
Additionally it introduces new _entities_ or _aspects_ to seamlessly fit **thin-edge** into those target domains.

Finally the **thin-edge** domain model gives..
  * _target domain experts_ a clear idea how to position **thin-edge** in their target domain
  * _target domain experts_ **and** _thin-edge developers_ a common understanding and unique vocabulary for **thin-edge** and it's environment

### Target Domains

**thin-edge** is designed to facilitate IoT functionality to resource constrained **devices**.
Therefor it interfaces **devices** with **clouds**, and focuses on both target domains as below:
  1. Device Domain
  2. IoT Cloud Domain

Both domains are explained in next sections.

> ## Device Domain

Reviewer 5: I would suggest to remove this section "Device Domain". It tries to define terms, which are NOT defined by thin-edge, so they are not part of the thin-edge domain model.

Author: Accepted, it is not part of the thin-edge domain model. However it is important to have same understanding and vocabularity for "devices" in context of thin-edge and it's domain model.

So I put the "Device" section for now to the appendix of that document. Could be maybe later also put to a separate document and just referenced in the domain model.

* The **OS / Libs / Runtime** provide basic functionality to the **Domain Application**
  <!-- TODO: add somehow "used to abtracts the hardware. But: on a microcontroler usually less abtraction, more hw dep on the domain app, and even no OS" -->
* **Sensors** and **Actuators** enable the **device** to observe and control physical behaviour on the shopfloor or device's environment.
  * can be integrated in the **device's** hardware,
    or connected to the **device** via some **Fieldbus** (e.g. Modbus, CANopen, PROFINET, EtherCAT, ...) or
    some **Local Interface** as USB, UART, SPI, I2C, ...
  * can be simple peripherals as a light barrier, or a sensor for temperature or pressure;
    or complex equipments as robotic arms or even other **devices**
* **Inputs / Outputs** are the communication channels between the **Domain Application** and **Sensors** and **Actuators**
  * drivers (as part of the **OS / Libs / Runtime** and/or the **Domain Application**) do expose all data from
    **Sensors** and **Actuators** to the **device** as inputs or outputs
  * also the **Domain Application** can expose data as input or output (e.g. own _signals_ or _states_)

## IoT Cloud Domain

> Cloud end-points could be IoT Cloud Platforms, as e.g. [Cumulocity](https://www.softwareag.cloud/site/product/cumulocity-iot.html), [Azure](https://azure.microsoft.com) or [AWS](https://aws.amazon.com); or end-points for specific IoT tasks, as e.g. a time-series database to collect measurements.

Reviewer 5: 1) IMHO this should introduce "IoT Cloud" term only. The term end-point is confusing at this point for the audience.
2) Lets remove time-series database.
3) Better to mentioned that "IoT Cloud" can be also an on-premise "IoT system" (Thick edge in our case).

Author: Adopted sugesstion, see https://github.com/thin-edge/thin-edge.io/commit/66553e29a3901896831861aac50c3d7b29ba2434

* Each **device** is represented in the IoT cloud by an individual **device twin**
* All information / data or functionality the device provides to the cloud appears in context of it's **device twin**
* The focus of **thin-edge** is on two IoT Cloud aspects:
  - 1) **Telemetry Data Handling**
  - 2) **Device Management**

### Telemetry Data Handling

> **Telemetry data** are the measurements, events and alarms collected or raised by sensors, actuators or domain applications.

Reviewer 5: IMHO simplify this by removing "sensors, actuators or domain applications." or putting it into a seperate sentence. Notes that sensors / actuators / domain applications are NOT part of thin-edge domain model, so its a bit irratating / too much information.

Author: Applied in new PR, see https://github.com/thin-edge/thin-edge.io/pull/1554#issuecomment-1301017645

  * **Measurement**, is a single value or set of values
    * could be be a mix of values produced by one or more sensors and values calculated by the device's domain application
    * values could be a mix of numbers, strings or booleans
    * has one timestamp
    * releates to one **Metric**

>   * **Metric**, is a time-series of measurements

Reviewer 5: I am a bit irretated by introducing "metric" here.
I would move that to some seperate chapter.
IMHO "metric is a special kind of measurement, which represents technical properties of of the device itself like CPU, Memory, etc."
BTW: That would not even be true if someone uses collectd with Modbus collector.

Reviewer: @vaillant, I suggested this term to @cstoidner, as this is for me a global term that encompasses values read on the device itself as well as measurements read from sensors.

Reviewer 4: Though do we need both `metrics` and `measurement` here? The first sentence of the `Telemetry data` section does not mention metrics. We could just use `measurement` to simplify the mapping between different domain models (e.g. Cumulocity and tedge).

The different between a measure(ment) and metric is largely academic, and you could still transport a metric as a measurement depending on how you want to model it. And I believe the users are not interested in the difference, and would favour simplicity (less choices)

https://www.simplekpi.com/Blog/metrics-and-meassures-a-definitive-guide

Author: The more I investigate about metrics and measurements I came now also to the clue, that metric is not the right thing here.

However it makes sense to distinguish for a measurement between:
- sampled values
   - a measurement's set of values, sampled at one point in time
- meta information
  - a measurement's type, number of values, units per values, ...more?

The latter one should possible to be exist without the first one (especially in start phase when not yet any value was sampled). So I am about to remove "metrics" from the model and adapt the definition of measurements.

Reviewer: I'm okay to use a single term. However, there is one point that matters to my academic background: time. The goal is not to have a single measurement but to observe a time-varying value taking samples with a specific frequency. I want to distinguish the sample from the whole series - at least at the conceptual level. This is because we are observing a continuous system that we can increase/decrease the sampling rate and interpolate missing samples or group close measurements as we do for collectd. Note that this is what makes the difference between events and measurements. If you missed an event, you cannot guess it from two events happening a bit sooner and later. It make also no sense to observe events at a different rate.

So, yes, it's important to simplify things (notably, I agree that the difference made in the article linked by @reubenmiller is subtle) but not to the point where we start to confuse key points (up to the point to blur the difference between measurements and events).

Author: Adopted in new PR, see https://github.com/thin-edge/thin-edge.io/pull/1554#issuecomment-1307364723

    * contains a _source device_
    * contains a _type name_
    * optionally contains _units_ for the **measurements**
  * TODO: Example for metric and it's measurements

>   * **Command**, is a single value or set of values

Reviewer 5: 1) Having "Command" under "telemetry" heading feels a bit strange to me. Isn't telemetry "device to cloud" only?
2) IMHO: "A command is a cloud orginated request to change the state of the device".

Reviewer 4: w.r.t. Point 1, yes technically control would be [telecommand](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Telecommand). We could rename the property to something more generic e.g. `communication_descriptor`, or `device_descriptor`

Reviewer 4: w.r.t. Point 2, I wouldn't limit a command just coming from the cloud. There are some instances where supporting a locally triggered command would is useful. And since the operation interface is driven by the local mqtt broker, then there is nothing stopping other services from triggering the same commands.

Use-case 1: A user is connected via ssh to a device and would like to check the handling of operations and could trigger a cli command to trigger the same process in the agent.

Use-case 2: There is a complex setup of devices with child devices where the firmware version needs to match on both the parent and child. When a child device is replaced, there is some additional service running which makes the decision which firmware version should be applied to the newly replaced device. The service then issues the command to the mqtt broker.

Author: I see the term `command` is really missleading here.
The original aim for the `command` was to have a kind of birectional communication for measurements.
  * Most motivation for that was the concept of "setpoints" from OT area
    * e.g. upper limit and lower limit of a climate control
  * A 'setpoint' as I would describe it:
    * has a value that is visible in the cloud, similar to a measurement (e.g. a "temperature upper limit")
    * is located and used on the device-site by the control-logic
    * it's value can be manipulated from cloud-site
      * a manipulation from cloud leads not to an immediate action (like an operation), 
      but the new value is used by the control application from next control-cycle on
    * and, it's value can also be manipulated from the device-site 

From my POV that is a concept missing in C8Y. However with **thin-edge** we should consider it. For C8Y we might able to emulate it somehow with C8Y operations. For other clouds it can be mapped to whatever the cloud supports.

However as already said on top, the term `command` is missleading. Instead I prefer to name it `setpoint`.
@vaillant , @reubenmiller , what do you think about that?

    * is send from the cloud to one device, e.g. to
      - stimulate an actuator (e.g. switching a relay)
      - send a signal to the domain application
      - set one or more set-points (e.g. upper/lower limits or threshold of a climate control)
    * values could be a mix of numbers, strings or booleans
  * **Event**, is a notification that something happened on the device's environment or software system
    * it's source could be
      - a sensor that detected a door has beed closed
      - a signal from the device's domain application
      - a device's system notification that a user has started an ssh session
    * has one timestamp given by the producer, or implicitly set as the current time of receiving at **thin-edge**
  * **Alarm**, is similar to an event, but the _End User_ (an operator of the system) has to take action to resolve the alarm.

> ### Device Management

Reviewer 5: It would be good to explain that DM is conceptually based on the doamin model terms above. 

"With device management, the IoT cloud manages the device itself (in contrast to manage connected sensors and actuators). This include software, configuration and log management. The management uses above terms (commands, measurements) to interact with the IoT Cloud.

Author: Considered in new PR, see https://github.com/thin-edge/thin-edge.io/pull/1554#issuecomment-1307413656

**Device Management** provides to manage and monitor devices in the field from the cloud. That includes:
  * **Software Management**, provides to manage the installed software packages on the device

>     * view list and versions of installed packages

Author: ```suggestion
    * retrieve list and versions of installed packages
```

    * install new or update existing software packages
    * remove installed software packages
  * **Configuration Management**, provides to view and change configurations on the device
    * lists available configuration files

>     * retrieve content of individual configuration files

Reviewer 5: note that "retrieve" and "send" are terms from cloud viewpoint.
Better:?
"transfer individual configuration file from device to cloud"
(similar line below)

Author: Wording changed , see https://github.com/thin-edge/thin-edge.io/commit/745fe78140d561cc73e4d5420e6b72e57de31771

    * send new content for individual configuration files
  * **Log Management**, provides to view log files from the device
    * lists available log files
    * retrieve content of individual log files
  * **Device Monitoring**, collects metrics from the device and forward these to the IoT cloud
    * allows monitors the health of devices
    * helps to troubleshoot when problems with the device are reported

> ## thin-edge device concept

Reviewer 5: IMHO we should clearly state that this section is about cild-device or device hierarchies

Author: Section is now named "Child-Devices", see https://github.com/thin-edge/thin-edge.io/commit/da26172f73e0f8109f3c53e09bc2d406ca550463

**thin-edge** facilitates IoT functionality to the device it is running on, as well as to devices that are connected to that device.

  * the device thin-edge is running on is referred as the **main-device**
    * thin-edge on the **main-device** establishes and manages all communication to the cloud

>   * all devices connected to the **main-device** are referred as **external child-devices**

Author: Applied in new PR, see https://github.com/thin-edge/thin-edge.io/pull/1554#issuecomment-1301030354

  * each device is represented in the cloud with an individual **device twin**
  * a unique **child-id** makes the association between each **external child-device** and it's **device twin**

>   * all telemetry data (i.E. Measurements, Variables, Events, Alarms) of a device (i.E. **main-device** or **external child-devices**) appear

Reviewer 5: "Variable" is a new term

Author: ```suggestion
  * all telemetry data (i.E. Measurements, Commands, Events, Alarms) of a device (i.E. **main-device** or **external child-devices**) appear
```

Thanks for the hint. The term "variable" was replaced with "command", and that line it was kept by mistake.

>     in the cloud in context of its corresponding **device twin**

Author: Adopted suggestion in a slightly modifed way:

  * each **external child-device** can be represented in the cloud with it's individual **device twin**
  * all **telemetry data** and **device managament** functionality can appear in the context of the 
    **external child-device's** individual **device twin**, or the **main-device's** **device twin**

See https://github.com/thin-edge/thin-edge.io/commit/da26172f73e0f8109f3c53e09bc2d406ca550463

The figure below illustrates the device concept.

![Device Concept](images/device-concept.svg)

> ## thin-edge data concept

Reviewer 5: I am this with this section, IMHO its not domain-model related.

  * **Measurements**:
    * a **measurement** is represented with one or more **data points**
      and a reference to the corresponding **metric**
    * the values of the **data points** reflect the measurement values
    * **thin-edge** puts the measurement into the context of the corresponding metric and sends it to the cloud
  * **Command**:
    * a **command** is represented with one or more values received from the **cloud**
    * **thin-edge** provides those values to the **domain application** and **protocol drivers** as **data point** values
  * **Events**:
    * for events **thin-edge** does not get in touch with **data points** at all;<br/>
      instead any event related **data point** and it's value is evaluated by the event producer internally (i.E. the **domain application** or **protocol drivers**)
    * the event producer sends a coresponding notification to **thin-edge** whenever an event shall be raised
  * **Alarms**:
    * similar to **events**; but in addition, the alarm producer can send a notification to **thin-edge** to clear an **alarm** 
    * **thin-edge** raises or clears the alarm in the cloud

> ## thin-edge device management concept

Reviewer 5: IMHO the first part of this should be merged with DM introduction above.

Author: Merged both now into one section, see https://github.com/thin-edge/thin-edge.io/commit/9385846d085256f93c3109e8613b017c745d4c0a

      * one or more configurations file of **OS / Libs / Runtime**
  * **Log Management**:
    * a Log is a log file, could be
      * log file(s) of the **domain application**
      * one or more log files of **OS / Libs / Runtime**

**thin-edge** realizes cloud's **Device Management** based on **plugins**.
  * a **plugin** encapsulates and manages access to _ressources_ and _services_ of the device, as e.g.
      * _software management_ accesses the device's _package manager_
      * _configuration management_ accesses device's _configuration files_
  * a **plugin** can be
      * an (external) executable (e.g. as the `c8y_configuration_plugin` for _configuration management_)
      * or a thin-edge built-in software component (e.g. as for _software management_)
  * usually a **plugin** runs on the **main-device**; thus it can access the _resources_ of the **main-device** directly
  * to access _ressources_ of an **external child-device** a **plugin** needs another component, referred as **child-device agent**

The figure below illustrates the concept of **plugins** and **child-devices agents**.

![Plugin Concept](images/plugin-concept.svg)

> ### Child-Device Agent

Reviewer 5: I have trouble understanding this.
What is the problem we solve? What is the main solution?
(The text seems to jump into some more "esoteric" usage patterns right in the beginning. Some of these I would disagree)

Author: With the latest version the section 'Plugins' and subsection 'Child-Device Agent' are restructured and precised.

See https://github.com/thin-edge/thin-edge.io/blob/e4c57206351183fc906717cae3ba2a3fea0dcb93/docs/src/architecture/domain-model.md#plugins

@vaillant , does that solve your confusion?

    * access the **domain application** (e.g. when the **domain application** cannot or shall not access **thin-edge** APIs directly) to provide **domain application's** **data points** to **thin-edge**

Per **telemetry data** the interpretation of **data points** differs:

  * **Measurements**:
    * a **measurement** is represented with one or more **data points**
      and a reference to the corresponding **metric**
    * the values of the **data points** reflect the measurement values
    * **thin-edge** puts the measurement into the context of the corresponding metric and sends it to the cloud
  * **Command**:
    * a **command** is represented with one or more values received from the **cloud**
    * **thin-edge** provides those values to the **domain application** and **protocol drivers** as **data point** values
  * **Events**:
    * for events **thin-edge** does not get in touch with **data points** at all;<br/>
      instead any event related **data point** and it's value is evaluated by the event producer internally (i.E. the **domain application** or **protocol drivers**)

>     * the event producer sends a coresponding notification to **thin-edge** whenever an event shall be raised

Reviewer: I really don't understand what translation is done - if any, by who and how.

Author: I added and improved some details about events, see https://github.com/thin-edge/thin-edge.io/commit/34f0bc731df6a79bab500fda06dae6ab93a60a3d

Does that solve the confusion?

    **Sensors** and **Actuators** to the **device** as inputs or outputs
  * also the **Domain Application** can expose data as input or output (e.g. own _signals_ or _states_)

## IoT Cloud Domain

> **thin-edge** is designed to be cloud agnostic, i.E. it does not stick to some specific IoT cloud.

Author: Thanks, I agree. I will just remove that sentence.

> Potentialy clouds are [Cumulocity](https://www.softwareag.cloud/site/product/cumulocity-iot.html), [Azure](https://azure.microsoft.com) or [AWS](https://aws.amazon.com). A flexible _Mapper Concept_ allows to adapt thin-edge to other clouds as well.

Author: I will incorporate that.

> Potentialy clouds are [Cumulocity](https://www.softwareag.cloud/site/product/cumulocity-iot.html), [Azure](https://azure.microsoft.com) or [AWS](https://aws.amazon.com). A flexible _Mapper Concept_ allows to adapt thin-edge to other clouds as well.

Author: ```suggestion
Cloud end-points could be IoT Cloud Platforms, as e.g. [Cumulocity](https://www.softwareag.cloud/site/product/cumulocity-iot.html), [Azure](https://azure.microsoft.com) or [AWS](https://aws.amazon.com); or end-points for specific IoT tasks, as e.g. a time-series database to collect measurements.
```

Whats about that? Feel free suggest something better. I feel I am not experienced enough in area of cloud and databases to imagine what really makes sense here to say.

> Potentialy clouds are [Cumulocity](https://www.softwareag.cloud/site/product/cumulocity-iot.html), [Azure](https://azure.microsoft.com) or [AWS](https://aws.amazon.com). A flexible _Mapper Concept_ allows to adapt thin-edge to other clouds as well.

Author: done, see https://github.com/thin-edge/thin-edge.io/commit/de02ce9fdb8f5305ce4ffba4bfd6ee43b1f9dadc

TODO: Maybe avoid cloud-names above, but focus on _mapper-concept_, since Azure and AWS are far less supported.

> * Each **device** is represented in the IoT cloud by an individual **device twin**

Author: ```suggestion
* The entity that represents a **device** in the IoT cloud is referred as **device twin**
```

> * Each **device** is represented in the IoT cloud by an individual **device twin**

Reviewer 5: IMHO "device twin" (and digital twin) is an important concept that is central to understand how thin-edge works.
That's why it must be introduced, and even better explained.

Proposal:
**thin-edge** has been designed with the assumption that the device is represented in the IoT cloud as **device twin**. The device twin in the IoT cloud is the software object [better term?] representation of the device. As such, it stores the state of the device. State refers to e.g. telemetry data or software versions (see below). 

[we should explain somewhere in more details our approach here, e.g. that commands do a device state change and then update the device twin afterwards]

* All information / data or functionality the device provides to the cloud appears in context of it's **device twin**
* The focus of **thin-edge** is on two IoT Cloud aspects:
  - 1) **Telemetry Data Handling**
  - 2) **Device Management**

### Telemetry Data Handling

> **Telemetry Data Handling** provides to manage data coming from device's sensors, or process data or signals coming from device's domain application.

Author: ```suggestion
**Telemetry Data Handling** provides to manage data related to device's sensors/actuators, or to the device's domain application (e.g. process data or signals).
```

Whats about that?

> **Telemetry Data Handling** provides to manage data coming from device's sensors, or process data or signals coming from device's domain application.

Author: ```suggestion
**Telemetry data** are the measurements, events and alarms collected or raised by sensors, actuators or domain applications.
```

See also https://github.com/thin-edge/thin-edge.io/pull/1195#discussion_r997048074 below.

> Those information are categorized as below:

Author: But completely removing it sounds a something is missing. That might makes more sense:
```suggestion
Telemetry Data can be:
```

> Those information are categorized as below:

Reviewer: The writing style I use is to list the different kinds of telemetry data in the introduction sentence.

"Telemetry data are the measurements, events and alarms collected or raised by sensors, metric collectors and analytics processors".

> Those information are categorized as below:

Author: ```suggestion
```

See also modified introduction in https://github.com/thin-edge/thin-edge.io/pull/1195#discussion_r997821717 above.

>   * **Measurement**, is a single value or set of values

Author: What I way trying to highlight, that a measurement can carry more than one value. E.g.
```
    value 1: voltage of phase 1
    value 2: voltage of phase 2
    value 3: voltage of phase 3
```
or
```
    value 1: temperature
    value 2: humidity
```

The crucial thing might be, all those values are sampled by one point in time. So what's about that:

```suggestion
  * **Measurement**, is one or more data points, the values taken at a single point in time
```

    * could be be a mix of values produced by one or more sensors and values calculated by the device's domain application
    * values could be a mix of numbers, strings or booleans

>     * has one timestamp given by the producer, or implicitly set as the current time of receiving at **thin-edge**

Author: Removed from here now.

    * releates to one **Metric**

>   * **Metric**, is a time-series of measurements
>     * contains a _source device_
>     * contains a _type name_
>     * optionally contains _units_ for the **measurements**

Author: > The source it not necessarily a device - it can be a process.

For me each measurement for a metric comes from a device. If the process on a device that produces measurements for a metric shall appear as individual source, then that process should act as a child-device.

```suggestion
  * **Metric**, is a time-series of measurements
    * relates to a _source device_
    * has a _type name_
    * optionally holds _units_ for the **measurements**
```

What do you think about that?

>     * optionally contains _units_ for the **measurements**

Reviewer: > For me each measurement for a metric comes from a device. If the process on a device that produces measurements for a metric shall appear as individual source, then that process should act as a child-device.

That is not the case. `collectd` is a source of measurement that is not represented as a child device.

>     * optionally contains _units_ for the **measurements**

Author: Applied in new PR, see https://github.com/thin-edge/thin-edge.io/pull/1554#issuecomment-1303825437

  * TODO: Example for metric and it's measurements
  * **Command**, is a single value or set of values
    * is send from the cloud to one device, e.g. to
      - stimulate an actuator (e.g. switching a relay)
      - send a signal to the domain application
      - set one or more set-points (e.g. upper/lower limits or threshold of a climate control)
    * values could be a mix of numbers, strings or booleans
  * **Event**, is a notification that something happened on the device's environment or software system
    * it's source could be
      - a sensor that detected a door has beed closed
      - a signal from the device's domain application
      - a device's system notification that a user has started an ssh session
    * has one timestamp given by the producer, or implicitly set as the current time of receiving at **thin-edge**
  * **Alarm**, is similar to an event, but the _End User_ (an operator of the system) has to take action to resolve the alarm.

### Device Management

> **Device Management** provides to manage and monitor devices in the field from the cloud. That includes:

Author: I create now the section "thin-edge device management concept" that explains how thin-edge "glues" device's ressources/entities with cloud's device management functionalies.

By the way: Same for cloud's telemetrie data and device's data points: The way thin-edge glues those is now described in section "thin-edge data concept".
